1. The older generation likes board games and card games while the younger generation is more in favor of playing computer and cellphone games. Which one do you prefer and why? > Blue
2. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Schools should require students to attend cultural events (for example, visit an art museum to see an exhibition). > Blue
3. Your university currently requires all students to take one humanities course in a subject such as literature or philosophy in order to graduate. However,some students majoring in subjects such as math and science think that these humanities courses are not relevant to their field of study and they should therefore not be required to take them. Do you agree with these students? Explain why or why not. > Blue
4. Some people prefer to live in many different cities throughout their lives, while others prefer to stay and live in just one city. Which do you prefer, andwhy? > Blue
5. Some people think that having a sense of humor makes it easier to deal with certain difficult situations in life such as conflicts with friends. Others believe it is best to approach difficult situations in a more serious manner. Which point of view do you agree with? Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Blue
6. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more difficult to be a parent nowadays than in the past. > Blue
7. Your university plans to open a new cafe on campus. Some students think the café should be designed as a quiet area where students can read and study. Other students think the cafe should be designed as a place for students to talk with friends and watch television on large screens. Which proposal do you support, and why? > Blue
8. Do you think the government should spend money saving endangered animals or the money has to come from private sources? > Blue
9. A large corporation wants to hire a new leader to run the business. It is considering two highly qualified candidates who have different approaches to decision-making for the job. The first person has a reputation for actingquickly and not always consulting with others before making decisions. The second person is known for sometimes delaying decisions in order to consider other people's opinions. Who do you think would make a better leader? > Blue
10. Some college students choose a course of study that will give them specific professional training such as teaching or engineering, while others choose a broader course of study such as philosophy or history that will give them more general knowledge. Which do you think is better? > Blue
11. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Employees shouldn’t send personal texts or emails during work hours. Explain why. > Blue
12. When purchasing a new or used product, in some situations there is not a fixed price, so the buyer and seller negotiate to reach an agreement on the price. Some buyers enjoy this process and prefer to negotiate a price whenever they can. Other people dislike the process of bargaining and would prefer to always pay a fixed price. Which do you prefer? > Blue
13. Some think that natural talent and ability are more important for an athlete; others think that hard work is more important. What do you think? > Pink
14. Some teachers prefer students to send questions about coursework and assignments by email. Other teachers prefer students ask these questions in person. Which do you think is better? Explain why. > Pink
15. Some people prefer to spend time by themselves while others prefer to spend time with their family. Which do you prefer? Explain why. > Pink
16. Some people like to listen to music on headphones while they go from one place to another. Others prefer going from place to place in silence. Which do you prefer? Explain why. > Pink
17. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Technology distances people from each other more than it brings them together. Use specific examples and details to support your opinion. > Pink
18. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important for all university students to engage in social activities such as joining clubs or sports groups. Use details and examples to explain your answer. > Pink
19. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Newspapers are a better source of information about current news events than television is. Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
20. Some students who study abroad prefer to live with roommates from the same cultural background. Others prefer to live with roommates from different countries. Which would you prefer and why? > Pink
21. Some college students take classes during the summer. Others take the summer off from school, so that they can rest or work at a job. Which do you think is better for students? Explain why. > Pink
22. When we meet new people we tend to notice certain things about them. Do you think that these first observations tell you a lot about the person or that it takes a long time to know what a person is like? Please include specific details in your explanation. > Pink
23. Some people are willing to spend a lot of money on a vacation so they can do something special. Others prefer to spend very little money on their vacations. Which do you think is better? Why? > Pink
24. Some university students participate in clubs or activities in addition to doing schoolwork. Other students spend most of their time doing schoolwork and do not participate in extra activities. Which do you think is better and why? > Pink
25. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Good teachers admit when they have made a mistake or do not know something. Use a specific example to support your point of view. > Pink
26. Companies have started giving their employees extra free time during the workday to socialize or engage in non-work activities. The theory is that this will increase productivity over time. Do you agree with this theory? Explain why or why not, using details and examples. > Pink
27. Your university is organizing a series of guest lectures. Some people think that speakers with controversial opinions should not be invited to speak at the university. Others believe that the university should feature variety of speakers, regardless of their opinions. Which point of view do you agree with? Explain why, using details and examples in your response. > Pink
28. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Nowadays, for a business to be successful, it must be actively involved in social media. Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
29. Some people believe that businesses should be required to spend a certain amount of their profits on social programs that benefit the public and the communities where they operate. Others believe that businesses should be able to decide for themselves how spend their profits. Which idea do you agree with? Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
30. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better for students to live with a roommate who is studying the same subject. Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
31. Some people like to read certain books more than once. Others prefer to always read something they have never read before. Which do you usually prefer? Explain why, using details and examples. > Pink
32. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People should only engage in activities or hobbies at which they are good or talented. Use details and examples to explain your answer. > Pink
33. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important to help people who have moved into your neighborhood to feel welcome and part of the community. Use details and examples to explain your answer. > Pink
34. When watching movies and television shows with friends and family, some people prefer that everyone remain quiet until the end. Other people enjoy  talking and sharing opinions during the movies and shows. Which do you prefer? Explain why. > Pink
35. Some people prefer to spend their extra money on objects, such as clothes or electronics. Other people prefer to spend it on experiences, like vacations or concerts. Which do you prefer and why? > Pink
36. Some people believe that a country's government should give money to support art institutions like museums or theaters. Others feel that it should not be the role of governments to do this. Which opinion do you agree with? Explain why > Pink
37. Some people believe that doing homework is not helpful for younger children and that it should be given only to older students. Others believe that homework should be assigned to children of all ages. Which point of view do you agree with? Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
38. Some people think that, when moving to a new country, they should adapt to the cultural habits and traditions of the new country. Other people prefer to keep their original habits and traditions. Which point of view do you agree with? Explain why, using details and examples in your response. > Pink
39. Some people prefer to work in a company where they have the independence to complete tasks and work out solutions to problems on their own. Others prefer to work in an environment where they are told exactly what they need to do. Which work situation would you prefer and why? > Pink
40. Some universities expect students to choose a major field of study when they enter university. Other universities allow students to wait until the second or third year before deciding on a major field of study. Which do you think is better? Why? > Pink
41. Some people believe that every college student should be required to take math classes. Others believe that only those who need it in their future careers should be required to study math. Which point of view do you agree with? Use details and examples to support your answer. > Pink
42. Your university is planning to require all first-year students to take a class in which they would learn how to use the resources available at the university library and apply those skills in writing a long research paper. Do you think this is a good idea? Explain why or why not, using specific examples and details > Pink
43. Some people like to organize and plan parties or other social events. Others prefer not to organize parties and would rather simply attend events that they have been invited to. Which do you prefer? Use details and examples to explain your opinion. > Pink
44. Some university classes only meet one day a week for a long period of time. Other university classes meet several days a week for shorter periods of time. Which do you think is better? Explain why. > Blue
45. Some people feel an emotional attachment to old items from the past, such as childhood toys and school projects, and prefer to keep them as long as possible. Others don't feel such an attachment and so don't keep them. Which do you prefer? Explain why? > Blue
46. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Playing sports as children encourage people to become overly aggressive later in life. > Blue
47. Some people prefer to travel when they have time off from school or work. Others prefer to spend their time off at home. Which do you prefer? > Blue
48. Imagine that you have applied for a job. The company has invited you to come to their office for an interview. However, the office is located a couple of hours away in another town. Because of the distance, the company has also offered to interview you by phone instead. Which would you choose and why? > Blue
49. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? All children should be required to attend school until age 16. > Blue
50. Some elementary schools are establishing policies that prohibit teachers from giving homework to children, so all assignments are completed during the school day rather than at home after school. Do you agree with such policies? Explain why or why not. > Blue
51. Your professor has offered you the opportunity to help him with some important research this weekend. However, you have made plans to travel to your hometown this weekend to attend your sister’s birthday party. What will you do? Explain the reasons for your choice. > Blue
52. Some people prefer to watch entertainment programs on television, while others prefer to watch educational programs. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
53. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Schools should not allow young children to use calculators during math classes and exams. > Blue
54. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Preserving the environment is the responsibility of the government of each country. > Blue
55. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Before taking a job in a particular field, students should get some experience in that field through a part-time job or summer employment.> Blue
56. When taking notes during a lecture or meeting, some people prefer to write them by hand on paper. Other people prefer to take notes by typing them on a laptop or other devices. Which one do you prefer? Explain why, using details and examples. > Blue
57. Some people prefer to be constantly busy and always have something to do. Others prefer not to be busy all the time but to spend some periods of time doing nothing. Which approach do you think is better? Explain why. > Blue
58. Imagine you have been offered two jobs. One job pays a very high salary but requires you to work very long hours and on weekends. The other job pays a lower salary but does not require you to work outside of regular business hours. Which job would you choose? Explain why. > Blue
59. When students are reading, some choose the books from the reading list their schools give. Other choose books by themselves. Which do you prefer? Use reasons and examples to explain your opinion. > Blue
60. Imagine that there is a proposal to lower the age at which a person can get a license to drive a car in your country. Would you agree or disagree with this proposal? Explain why. > Blue
61. Some teachers have an informal style and treat their students almost like friends. Other teachers have a more formal style and keep a professional distance from students. Which teaching style do you think is better for learning? Explain why. > Blue
62. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People should always wear fashionable clothes. Please use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. > Blue
63. Many students are asked to evaluate their professors at the end of the semester. Do you think it is a good idea? Why? > Blue
64. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? We should be completely honest with friends. > Blue
65. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should discourage children from joining some competitive activities like sports. > Blue
66. Which one do you agree? Children born with talent should be treated in a different way or they should be treated in the same way as average children. > Blue
67. Some students enjoy decorating their surroundings; others choose to keep their surroundings simple and free of any decorations. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
68. Some people like participating in performances like theatrical or musical shows. Others prefer to be in audience watching those plays. Which do you prefer? > Blue
69. If a children’s museum is going to have an exhibition, which of the following subjects will be the most attractive to children?  Robot technology  Deep sea marine life  Solar system > Black
70. Children may be unwilling to learn musical instrument since they need to keep practicing. What should parents do?  Force children to learn musical instrument.  Let children choose whether to learn musical instrument. > Black
71. Do you like to make a plan with friends about social activities in advance or plan it when you attend it? > Blue
72. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Happiness comes from helping others rather than helping yourself. Use reasons and examples to explain your opinion. > Blue
73. Do you think it's a good idea for university to ask a student to leave school if he was caught cheating in exams? > Blue
74. When a friend is coming to visit your place, do you prefer a surprise visit or an informed one? > Blue
75. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is easier to teach students in primary school than it is to teach students in university. > Blue
76. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to be successful, one has to make enemies. > Blue
77. Some recent university graduates choose to spend a period of time doing volunteer work of community service before they start their careers. Others think it is better to start working as soon as possible after graduation. Which view do you agree with? Use details and examples to explain your answer. > Blue
78. There are several ways you can get to know a country without travelling abroad. Which of the following ways would you like to choose?  Reading books  Watching videos  Joining online communication groups Choose one and explain why > Black
79. You are required to be a volunteer in a school beatification day, which of the following would you like to choose.  planting in campus flowers garden  picking up garbage and collecting the recyclable material  painting natural and outside arts .Give specific reasons to support your answer. > Black
80. Do you agree or disagree that important business meetings should be held in person rather than use technology such as video conference call. Give specific reasons to support your answer. > Blue
81. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People perform better when they are under some stress or pressure. The theory is that when people  are under stress, they tend to have a clearer motivation about their goals. Use details and examples to explain your answer. > Blue
82. If the government has a large sum of money, which area would suggest the government invest to?  Space exploration  Education  Health care. > Black
83. The school decided to cancel the long summer vacation. So students have to attend school all year with some short breaks during holidays. Do you agree or disagree? Please explain the reasons. > Blue
84. When people acquire a new electronic device, such as a camera or a computer, they may be unsure of how it works. Some people prefer to read the directions to understand how it works. Other people prefer to experiment with the device, to try to figure it out on their own. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
85. The school needs to cut club subsidies. Which of the following clubs do you think should be cut in subsidies?  sports club  academic club  skiing club  > Black
86. Some countries have approved “homeschool” as part of education. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? > Blue
87. Professors shouldn’t allow students to record class lectures. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? > Blue
88. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The purpose of art is to guide our life. > Blue
89. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Good luck is as important as hard work for a person’s success. > Blue
90. Some professors prefer to answer students’ questions at the end of the lecture, and others stop at different points to answer students’ questions. Which style do you think is better for learning? > Blue
91. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The government should spend money on projects that can encourage citizens to lead a healthier lifestyle. Please give your opinion and explanation. > Blue
92. Some people believe that we should not discuss the private activities of the popular people, like movie stars and singers. Do you agree? Why? > Blue
93. You live in a crowded city with only one green space-the city park. The government recently proposes to build a housing complex on this only green space. Do you think this is a good idea? > Blue
94. Which one of the following fields would you like to donate your money to?  community charity  environment protection  animal rescue Explain your reasons with examples and details. > Black
95. Some people prefer to spend lots of money on vacation. Some people would spend little money on vacation. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
96. In a workplace, should the employer constantly supervise the employees or is it better that the employer only checks the employees occasionally? Please include specific reasons and details in your response. > Blue
97. Which would you prefer: start a project as early as possible or wait until the deadline? > Blue
98. Some parents think they should protect children from making mistakes. Some think they should let them make mistakes. What do you think? > Blue
99. Do you agree or disagree? Children should listen or read news at an early age. > Blue
100. Some people think they should learn math at school while others think they should learn math at work. Which do you prefer? > Blue
101. There is a policy that parents should not be allowed to see children's grades without their permission. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
102. Some people like to write diaries or take photos to record what they've experienced when they're traveling, others don't do so. What's your opinion on it? Please explain with details. > Blue
103. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Kids should be allowed to keep pets. > Blue
104. Do you agree or disagree that government should pass a law to fine people who use mobile phones when crossing the street? > Blue
105. Which one do you prefer: taking classes in the morning or in the afternoon? > Blue
106. When giving feedbacks to students, some teachers would like to talk to their students in person, while some teachers would give written comments to students. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
107. The university is going to increase the price junk food, to make more money, and use the money to add more kinds of healthy food. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
108. Some students like teachers who often supervise their study and work, while others like teachers who allow them to study independently and check their work occasionally. Which one do you prefer? Explain your reasons. > Blue
109. Some people prefer sending messages while others prefer making phone calls directly, which one do you prefer? > Blue
110. Some people want to change their appearance, even by surgery. Do you agree or disagree? Give your reasons. > Blue
111. If you are going to have an interview with a famous people in your community, which of the following people will you choose?• businessman • professor • artist Give detailed information to support your answer and explain why. > Black
112. Among the following jobs, which one do you think is the most interesting one and why? • airplane pilot • actor • detective  > Black
113. If universities are given financial support to develop researches, which one do you think would receive more benefits? • To predict weather more accurately • To clean rivers and ocean •  To deal with outer space  > Black
114. Your university has acquired a piece of land next to the campus. There have been three options for the use of the land. Which do you prefer? Why? • athletic facilities and stadiums  • a park with nature trails  • centers for students and hotel for campus guests > Black
115. The university international office is going to hold a social event. Which one of the following choices do you think is the best? • international food fair •  international music festival •  international film festival  > Black
116. The university currently requires all the students to take the physical education course to graduate. Which of the following options will you choose?  soccer  dancing > Black
117. Which of the following areas of current events do you most like to read?  Politics  Sports  Arts and films > Black
118. There is going to be a students’ TV show. Which show would you like to watch. Please give your reasons. •  An interview with school leaders •  Students’ debate on political and social topics   Comedy about school life > Black
119. Your degree requires you to take one course, which one would you choose? • Energy and environment • Health and nutrition •  Solar system > Black
120.  The university wants to provide students more entertainments. Three choices are provided below; which do you prefer and why? • theater performance by student actors •  concert provided by professional musicians •  lecture by a professor > Black
121. Some people believe old people should not take risks and participate in adventurous events as the young people. Do you agree? Why? > Blue
122. You have been very busy and unable to prepare for the exam tomorrow. You can either stay up late to study and sleep less or just study less and get full night’s sleep. Which will you prefer? > Blue
123. Some students think that they should be graded based on participating in the class discussions, while others think that they should be graded based on written work, such as paper. Which opinion would you prefer? Why? > Blue
124. If you are to choose between two apartments to live in next semester; one apartment is near the campus but is slightly expensive, the other is a little far from the campus but is cheaper. Which one do you prefer and why? > Blue
125. Imagine that you have been accepted by two different universities: one university is well-known for its excellent academic program, but it’s expensive, while the other one is less well-known, but has offered you scholarship to pay for your tuition fee. Which university would you prefer? Explain why. > Blue
126. Many people think that students study course materials more effectively by taking exams, while others think that students learn more effectively through doing other activities such as writing paper or completing projects. Which do you think is more effective for students to learn? > Blue
127. You will need to accomplish an assignment to do a presentation. Which will you choose? • Act out a scene from a play (with a partner) •  Explain your review of a novel you recently you read •  Read a selection of poem > Black
128. Which of following aspects do you think contributes most to country's success? •  many business opportunities • well-rounded medical care system •  a developed educational system > Black
129. Some choose to work in a small company or organization with a few workers. Others prefer to work in a large company or organization with thousands of employees. Which do you think is better? > Blue
130. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Current celebrities (like musicians, actors/actresses, athletes) set a good example as role model for the young people. > Blue
131. Do you agree or disagree that hiring experienced teachers is a deciding factor for the success of a school? > Blue
132. Which campus improvement do you suggest your school make: swimming pool, cafeteria or dormitory? Please give specific reasons to support your opinion. > Black 
133. Which of the following three would you choose to do in summer vacation? Working as a  librarian  painter in an art center  life guard in the natatorium > Black 
134. Which of the following technological developments has made the greatest impact on students’ lives? •  electronic books •  online classes •  smartphones > Black
135. If you are going to choose a roommate, which of the following qualities is the most important to you? •  Cleanness •  Friendliness •  Quietness > Black 
136. Which would you prefer: doing exercise every day or only when you are free? > Blue
137. Do you agree or disagree that it is important for young people to learn some skills like cooking, sewing and taking care of children? > Blue
138. Which of the following choice do you think has the greatest impact on environmental protection? •  Governmental regulations •  Environmental awareness groups •  Individual efforts > Black
139. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Schools need to encourage students to be more creative and use imagination to be successful person. > Blue
140. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important to maintain relationship with family members than with friends. > Blue
141. Some people get to know a person by the first observation while others prefer to get to know a person by long time observation. Which one do you prefer? Explain why. > Blue
142. Do you agree or disagree the following statement? Older doctors are more knowledgeable than young doctors? Use specific details and examples to explain why. > Blue
143. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? For being successful in business, being outgoing and friendly is very important. > Blue
144. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students learn more when teachers assign a lot of homework. Use specific details and examples to explain why. > Blue
145. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A boss or a manager should not form close friendship with their employees. > Blue
146. Do you agree or disagree? Government should not allow violence and bad language in television programs. > Blue
147. Which type of professor do you prefer: an interesting professor with a strict grading policy or a boring professor with a loose grading policy? > Blue
148. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is easier to be an adult than it is to be a child. > Blue
149. Your university will sponsor one of the following activities for students:  an outdoor camp night  a music festival to experience the local culture  a computer game contest in the dorm Which do you think is the best and why? > Black
150. What kind of activity do you think that children do to cultivate a sense of responsibility? •  keeping a pet •  doing house chores •  helping take care of their younger sisters or brothers Use specific details and examples in your response. > Black
151. Some people prefer to solve a challenge all by themselves. Others prefer to depend on other people’s help. Which do you prefer and why? Include details and examples in your explanation. > Blue
152. When students have questions about an assignment for class, some prefer to ask their professors for help, while others would rather ask fellow students. Which do you prefer? > Blue
153. Some people prefer to have their schedules fully and specifically arranged. Some people, however, prefer to leave themselves a lot of free time. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
154. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?Students should do some part-time jobs before they attend college. Please use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. > Blue
155. It is important for people to learn about local history. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
156. A big corporation is planning to invest in a factory in your hometown. This factory will create many job opportunities for people, but also will bring a lot of pollution at the same time. Do you agree or disagree with the plan? > Blue
157. Some people prefer talking about their opinion immediately when they get the topic, while others prefer to wait and listen to others before they talk about their own opinion. Which one do you prefer and why? > Blue
158. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? It's never acceptable to interrupt other people when they are talking. > Blue
159. One of your friends decided to study more courses in order to graduate one year earlier. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
160. Your university decided to allow local communities to attend classes on campus; they could enter into the class but can't ask questions and don't have assignments. Do you agree or not? > Blue
161. Do you agree or disagree? Physical exercise is more important for older people than young people. > Blue
162. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is acceptable that someone uses others’ influence to get a job. > Blue
163. If you are an interviewer, which of the following aspects of the job seeker will you consider? Why? •  Performance during the interview •  Education •  Work experience > Black
164. Do you prefer to be friends with peers or friends of different ages? > Blue
165. Do you prefer to choose regular working hours or work more freely at home? > Blue
166. Some people think that the library should be quiet. Some people think that social activities should be provided for students to meet friends and have meetings. What do you think? > Blue
167. Even if you are older, you can get a university degree. Do you disagree with this view? > Blue
168. School campus newspapers need to add a new section; which one do you think will make students feel interested?  local restaurant reviews  tips on travelling  film recommendation > Black 
169. Do you agree or disagree? Children should take part in sports team to be more socially developed. > Blue
170. If the government wants to invest in the following three areas, what do you think is the most worthwhile? •  land exploration •  education •  health care > Black
171. Some people think with the development of technology and Internet, libraries will disappear while others think libraries are always necessary. Which idea do you agree with, and please give specific details to support your opinion. > Blue
172. Among the following jobs, which do you is most interesting one and why? •  airplane pilot •  actor •  detective > Black
173. Female and male university students should have separate residence halls. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
174. Which of the following creative activities do you like to get involved in? •  Pottery making •  Writing •  Art creation Choose one and explain why. > Black
175. Which one would you like to choose for your final project? •  Having a presentation •  Writing a paper •  Preparing a video > Black 
176. Do you agree or disagree with this statement? We should help our friends only when they ask for help. > Blue
177. The university decides to remodel the dormitory and add a new space to it. Which space do you recommend to add in your dormitory? •  Cafe •  Study room •  Game room > Black
178. All people should be required to stop working and retire by age 65. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
179. Your friend wants to come to your country. What things do you suggest he do and not do to be polite and respectful? > Black
180. If you have more money, do you want to spend your money on objects like clothes and electronic devices or spend your money on experience? > Black
181. Which of the following areas of current events do you most like to read about? •  Politics •  Sports •  Arts and films > Black
182. Some students prefer to study for exam at night. Other students prefer to study during the day. Which one do you prefer? Explain why. > Blue
183. Some people speak out in class, others prefer to listen and quietly observe. Which do you think leads to greater success in school? Explain why you think so. > Black 
184. Students are asked to write a final project about the famous historical city where you live. Which way do you choose? •  video the famous buildings •  visit the old people •  Research and write a paper > Black
185. Many people prefer to read books in electronic format on a computer screen or other devices. Some other people prefer to read books on paper printed copies. Which way do you prefer? Why? > Blue
186. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? With the popularity of the technology that focuses on entertainment, people read fewer books than before. > Blue
187. Friends may disagree with each other, and still maintain friendship. Do you agree with or disagree with this idea, why? > Blue
188. Which of the following three activities do you prefer to do with a group of people rather than alone? •  Eat a meal •  Listen to music •  Do homework > Black
189. In your opinion, which of the following behavior is the most negative one displayed by children? •  Being selfish •  Speaking impolitely •  Being loud > Black 
190. What would you most like to take a course in? • Mathematics  •  Painting •  Science  > Black
191. Do you agree or disagree? It is important for a child to spend a short period of time living far away from home, visiting relatives and friends. > Blue
192. Your friends are planning to take a part-time job whileattending the university. Do you think it is a good idea? Why? > Blue
193. There are two invitations. One is a party with your friends and the other is having a dinner party with your parents. Which one would you prefer and why? > Blue
194.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is never too late to get a degree in university. > Blue
195. Some people prefer to buy new books while some people would like to buy used books. Which one do you prefer? > Blue
196. If university plans to add a new course that is not being offered to students, which of the following courses, in your opinion, would attract more students? •  Sound engineering and recording •  History of rock music •  Film studies > Black
197. Some are willing to own and manage their own company, and some prefer to work in others’ companies. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
198. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? One of the best ways to learn about a country’s culture is through watching television shows in that country. > Blue
199. Some people suggest students eat and drink during classes. Do you think it is a good idea? > Blue
200. Some people learn more in the morning. Some others learn more in the afternoon. Which one is better for you? > Blue
201. Some people think it is more important to spend time with family rather than study or work. Which opinion would you prefer? Why? > Blue
202. Some students prefer to choose a career before getting into college. Other students prefer to choose a career after taking some university courses. Which one do you prefer and why? > Blue
203. Which of the following functions of smart phones is the most beneficial to students? • taking photos •  listening to the music •  recording lectures > Black
204. Some people go to exercise outside or go to gym every day while others do exercise or go to gym when they have free time. Which opinion would you prefer? Why? > Blue
205. Your degree requires that you choose a history course. Which of the following courses would you prefer? •  Art history •  Twentieth-century world history •  Science history Choose ONE of the three courses. Use specific details and examples to explain why. > Black
206. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important for children to learn to draw or paint. > Blue
207. Which do you think is better: watching the news or reading the news? Explain why. > Blue
208. If you can have a part-time job at the university, what position would you choose: a lab assistant, a campus tour guide or a library assistant? Please give specific reasons. > Black
209. Some people prefer to learn about current events through watching television news programs. Others prefer to read about current events in newspaper or on the Internet. Which one do you prefer? Why? > Blue
210. Which of the following ways is the best in getting to know Italian culture? •  watching Italian movies •  learning Italian cooking •  attending Italian lectures or classes > Black 
211. Some people prefer to do shopping in large grocery stores or department stores. Others prefer to do shopping in small grocery stores. Which do you prefer and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your response. > Blue
212. If you are a teacher of a tutor group and you are going to take students to a study trip, where would you take them to? •  science museum •  local farm •  theater performance > Black
213. Do you think it is a good idea for parents to give children money if they have good grades in school? Please include details and examples in your explanation. > Blue
214. Teaching quality is very important to a university. What about other significant factors? Which one would you choose in the first place and why? •  Size •  Price •  Location > Black
215. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Building zoos helps to protect animals. Please give your answer with specific examples and details. > Blue
216. Which of the following activities should a university value most?  Volunteer service  Athletic achievement  Academic performance > Black
217. Do you prefer a big family or a small family? Please give your answer with specific examples and details. > Blue
218. Do you agree with the statement: employees should be allowed to listen to music at work? > Blue
219. Some people prefer jobs working with computers or other technology, others like jobs working with no such technology. Which do you think is better and why? > Blue
220. Some people prefer to wash dishes by a dish washer. Others prefer to wash dishes by hands. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
221. We should let children use the computers or other electronic devices as early as they can. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
222. The university plans to turn long summer holiday into several short holidays. Do you think it's a good idea? > Blue
223. Which kind of extracurricular activity would you like to attend if you have a chance?  writing essays for students’ newspaper  joining a hiking club  working in the dormitories discipline committee > Black
224. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Stories of famous people on TV have no relevance to ordinary people. > Blue
225. Some people like to get advice from parents or grandparents, while some people like to get help from their peers. Which do you prefer and why? Please include specific reasons and examples to support your answer. > Blue
226. Some people prefer to make detailed plans for the future. Others prefer to concentrate on present things and don't make any plans at all. Which way do you prefer? Please use specific reasons to support your answer. > Blue
227. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Wealthy people should be required to help poor people. Please answer the question with specific examples and details. > Blue
228. What kind of job will you choose: a job through which you can get a lot of money or a job through which you can get great personal satisfaction? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. > Blue
229. Some people prefer to write many short assignments for a semester, others prefer to write one or two long assignments for a semester. Which do you prefer? Explain why. > Blue
230. Some people prefer to live in places where climate does not change very much, while others prefer to live in places where climate changes with seasons. Which one do you prefer? Why? > Blue
231. Some people prefer to celebrate special occasions like birthdays with their friends, others prefer to be alone at such occasions. Which do you prefer? Use examples and details to support your response. > Blue
232. Which one of the three occupations do you think is the hardest?  Government worker  Doctor  Police officer Please state your reasons with specific details. > Black
233. Among the following three professions, which do you think make the biggest contribution to society? Teachers, famers, doctors. > Black
234. Do you agree or disagree with the following question. In order to stay happy, you must have a job that you love doing. > Blue
235. Some people prefer to have classes during the day and do part-time jobs in the evening while others prefer to have classes in the evening and do part-time jobs during the day. Which do you prefer? > Blue
236. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Power and money is the symbol of success. > Blue
237. Some people like get a job during summer vacation. Others think it is better to take a class. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
238. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important lessons cannot be learned in classrooms. > Blue
239. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? College education should only be available to people who have done well in secondary school. > Blue
240. Do you like to be taught by experienced teachers or by new teachers? > Black
241. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is good for students to attend a university or college in a foreign country. Explain why. > Blue
242. Some people prefer to make decisions quickly. Others prefer to take their time. Which do you prefer and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your response. > Blue
243. Some people prefer to be a leader in a group project, while others prefer to be a supporting member in a group project. Which do you prefer and why? Use examples and details in your explanation. > Blue
244. Some people prefer to do one job or project at one time. Other people prefer to do several jobs or projects at the same time. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
245. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Personality changes as one grows older. > Blue
246. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should be required to help with household tasks as soon as they are old enough to do so. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. > Blue
247. What do you think is the most important quality of a working environment: good leaders, good colleagues, or flexible time? > Black
248.  Do you agree or disagree? Cell phone has changed our lives greatly. > Blue
249. Some people like to spend their spare time with friends, some people like to spend it alone. Which one do you prefer? > Blue
250. If you were to become a volunteer at the school or in the community, what kind of volunteer work would you do and why? > Blue
251. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Artists and musicians are important to our society. > Blue
252. Some students take notes very often during class. Other students do not take notes or rarely take notes. Which do you think is better? > Blue
253. Watching TV is not a good use of time. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
254. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? What a person wears can show his or her personality. > Blue
255. Do you prefer to listen to live music like concert, or do you prefer to listen to recorded music? > Blue
256. Do you prefer to learn from current people and events or from people and events in the past? > Blue
257. Do you like to go to one place and stay there for a long time for your vacation, or different places and spend little time at each place? > Blue
258. Choose ONE of the forms of the technology in the list and tell why it has great impact on people's lives in your country? Airplane, computer or television. Use specific reasons and examples to support your response. > Black
259. Which is better for children: to grow up in a big city or to grow up in a small town? > Blue
260. Some people like to watch or listen to news every day while others do that occasionally. Which do you prefer and why? Use specific reasons and examples to illustrate your point. > Blue
261. Do you prefer to have fast food in a fast-food restaurant, or do you prefer to have food in other kinds of places? > Blue
262. Some students prefer to take an essay question where they must write an essay to a question. Other students prefer to take a test with objective/multiple-choice questions. Which type of exam question do you prefer? Give reasons and examples in your explanation. > Blue
263. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People who are 18 years old are not mature enough to vote. > Blue
264. Are you willing to carefully choose the gift which your friends like or choose whatever you like? > Black
265. Among the following three types of books, which do you like the least?  mystery novel  science fiction  biography > Black
266. Do you like to travel alone or travel with your family members? Explain why. > Black
267. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Playing computer or video games has a negative influence on teenagers. > Blue
268. Some college students like to spend their free time studying another course or doing schoolwork. Others like to join a club and enjoy club activities. Which do you think is better and why? > Black
269. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? University students should learn how to manage their time more efficiently. > Blue
270. Some people think it is better for students to study in a class. Others think that it is better for students to study on the Internet. Which do you think is better and why? > Black
271. Some students prefer to go to universities or colleges in their hometown. Others prefer to go to universities or colleges in new cities or towns. Which do you prefer and why? Include details and examples in your explanation. > Blue
272. Do you prefer to take courses related to a specific career, or do you prefer to take a variety of courses? > Blue
273. Some people would borrow money to buy things they need. Others would save up money until they can afford it. Which would you prefer and why? > Blue
274. Should students start to plan their career before entering college, or should they do so until they have entered college and studied for a period of time? > Blue
275. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The Internet plays an important role in your life. Use specific examples and details to support your answer. > Blue
276. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?Students nowadays work harder in their study than students in the past. > Blue
277. Do you agree or disagree with this statement? People should dress according to the latest fashion. > Blue
278. Given the choice, many people would prefer to live in an older or more historic building or house. Others would prefer to live in a more modern building or house. Which would you prefer, and why? > Blue
279. Among the following three professions, which do you respect the most: photographers, musicians, painters? Explain why. > Black
280.  Which do you prefer, reading paper books or reading electronic books? Explain why. > Blue
281. Some students prefer to live alone or live with their friends when they study abroad. Other students prefer to live with a local family when they study abroad. Which way do you prefer and why? > Blue
282. Some people prefer to listen to music while they are studying or working. Others prefer to stay in a quiet place while they are studying or working. Which way do you prefer and why? Include reasons and details in your response. > Blue
283. Some people like to move about and live in different places. Others like to stay at one place all their lives. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
284. Among the following three types of work, which would you enjoy doing the most?  helping children with communication problems  doing community work  growing plants in the garden > Black
285. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Watching sports programs on television is not a good use of time. > Blue
286. Some people prefer outdoor activities such as basketball. Others prefer indoor activities such as yoga. Which would you prefer and why? > Blue
287. Many schools require their students to complete at least 40 hours of community service. Do you agree or disagree with this requirement? Use specific details and examples to support your opinion.> Blue
288. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The success of a school largely depends on the resources it has such as textbooks and journals. > Blue
289. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Teachers should encourage students to start using computers from primary school. Give details and examples to support your response. > Blue
290. Do you agree or disagree that assignments handed in after the deadline should receive a lower score? > Blue
291. Some people like to collect old things such as newspapers.Others throw things away after they have used them. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
292. Some people like to reading paper books while other like to listen to audio books. Which do you prefer and why? > Blue
293. People should be encouraged to visit science and art museums. Do you agree or disagree? > Blue
294. If you were to choose a place to live, what kind of location would you prefer and why?  a place close to school  a place lose  to your family  a place close to a transportation hub (airport or bus terminal, etc.) > Black
295. Some people think the best way to study is to attend a lecture. Others say that it’s better to read by yourself. Which way do you prefer and why? > Blue
296. Should employees be required to wear suits in the workplace, or should they wear casual clothes? > Black
297. If a foreign tourist visits your city, where would you take this tourist? •  a factory •  a university •  a museum Give reasons for your answer. > Black
298. Between the following two places, where would you choose to live?  a big, new place but far from your workplace and/or university  a small, old place which is near your workplace and or university > Blue
299. Which of the following three subjects would you choose to learn? Math, painting, science. Explain what you want to learn from this subject. > Black
300. Do you prefer to use e-mails to communicate with your friends and family members or do you prefer to use the telephone? > Black
301. If you are asked by your teacher to do community service, which of the following would you choose? Explain why.  helping children with their homework  teaching adults to use the computer  cleaning city park > Black
302. Do you prefer to live in an area that is noisy but close to shops or public transportation, or an area that is quiet but far away from shops and public transportation? > Blue
303. Instead of printing books in paper version, the university decides to release only online version of textbooks. Do you agree or disagree with this change? > Blue
304. People are encouraged to use reusable bags and bring their own bags when going shopping, and there will be a fee imposed to plastic bags. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? > Blue
305. Now teachers tend to assign group assignments instead of individual assignments. Do you agree or disagree with this policy?> Blue 
306. Nowadays students usually take exams in the class, but some universities allow students to take exams at home. Which one do you prefer? > Blue
307. Nowadays, many people tend to move to a new city to work or study. Do you think it is a good idea? > Blue
308. Some schools require students to finish a reading list during school breaks. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? > Blue
309. Many schools do not allow students to take their laptop computers into the classroom. Do you agree or disagree with this policy? > Blue