1. Some people think that parents should plan their children’s leisure time carefully. Other people believe that children should decide for themselves how to spend their free time. Which idea do you agree with?
2. People should never be satisfied with what they have. they should always want something new or something different. Do you agree or disagree with the statement.
3. Travelling is more important than reading books in order to understand the people and the world. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? Use specific reasons to support your answer.
4. After they complete their university studies, some students live in their hometowns, while others live in different towns or cities. Which do you think is better: living in your hometown or living in different towns or cities? Give specific reasons for your answer.
5. Some people learn best when a lesson is presented in an entertaining, enjoyable way. Other people learn best when a lesson is presented in a serious, formal way. Which of these two ways of learning do you prefer? Give reasons to support your answer.
6. Some people say that the best preparation for life is learning to be cooperative. Do others take the opposite view and say that learning to be competitive is the best preparation. Which one you agree with? Explain why.
7. Someone think that playing a game is fun only when you win. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? Use specific reasons to support your answer.
8. A research center is going to be established in a university. There is an argument whether to establish an agricultural center or a business one. Which do you think is better? Use specific reasons to support your answer.
9. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Dissatisfaction leads to progress. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
10. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A student’s main purpose in getting an education is to earn a lot of money. Use specific reasons and examples to support your opinion.
11. When people succeed, it is because of hard work. Luck has nothing to do with success. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your position.
12. Some people say that the best way to raise children is to encourage them to be independent thinkers. Others disagree and say that children need to be taught discipline in order to become successful. Which idea do you agree with? Why?
13. “It’s better to make wrong decision than make no decision at all.” Do you agree or disagree with the statement? Give reasons or specific examples to explain your answer.
14. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Television, newspapers, magazines, and other media pay too much attention to the personal lives of famous people such as public figures and celebrities.
15. Businesses should hire employees for their entire lives. Do you agree or disagree?
16. The expression “never, never give up” means to keep trying and never stop working for your goals. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
17. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? One should never judge a person by external appearances.
18. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A person should never make an important decision alone.
19. A company is going to give some money either to support the arts or to protect the environment. Which do you think the company should choose?
20. Some movies are serious, designed to make the audience think. Other movies are designed primarily to amuse and entertain. Which type of movie do you prefer?
21. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Businesses should do anything they can to make a profit.
22. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Games are as important for adults as they are for children.
23. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents or other adult relatives should make important decisions for their teenage (15 to 18-year-old) children.
24. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Most experiences in our lives that seemed difficult at the time become valuable lessons for the future.
25. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Boys and girls should attend separate schools.
