1.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The government should spend more money on improving access to the Internet than on public transportation. 
1.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Telephone has greater influence on people’s lives than television has. 
1.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Most businesspeople are motivated only by the desire for more money. 
1.IV. You have long been friends with someone. If they do something that you don’t like, should you still be friends with him or her? 
1.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Nowadays, people are too obsessed with buying or acquiring material things such as expensive clothes or cars because, they think that people around them will judge them based on what they possess.
1.VI. For the students (aged 5-10), is it better to take a break for every one hour of instruction or let them focus on lessons for a longer period of time?
1.VII. Some people believe because the consumption of sugar and salt is increasing government should increase taxes and use taxes in healthcare. Others believe that government should not increase taxes for food whether it is healthy or not 
1.VIII. Luck plays the most important role in people's success. Do you agree or disagree?
1.IX. People nowadays tend to buy more products and travel more. To have a more sustainable environment, it is good to reduce their consumption. Do you agree or disagree?
1.X. Do you agree or disagree? Communication with professors and other students by a computer offers better advantages than traditional classes on campus college. 
2.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students who keep their rooms neat and organized will be more likely to succeed than students who do not.
2.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Sports teach people lessons about life.
2.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Improving schools is the most important factor in the successful development of a country. 
2.IV. Do you agree or disagree? It is better to relax through watching a film and reading a book than doing physical exercises?
2.V. Which of the following is the most effective way for parents to get children (aged 3-6) ready for the start of the school? a. Providing appropriate books for children to learn how to read b. Reading books aloud for children c. Improving children's communication skill by engaging in conversation with adults 
2.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? All university students should be required to take at least one class that teaches the culture of a country other than their own. 
3.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Advertising is the most important cause of unhealthy eating habits. 
3.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people should try several different jobs before they take a long-term career. 
3.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Newspapers and magazines are the best ways to learn about a foreign country. 
3.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important for students to understand ideas and concepts than it is for them to learn facts. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
3.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Drivers have to pay a fee for driving in busy city streets when there is a great amount of traffic. 
3.VI. The government wants to invest money to develop open space. Do you think it is better to build a park to provide entertainment for everyone, or to build a sports ground for a high school without a sports field? 
4.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A job with more vacation time but a low salary is better than a job with a high salary but less vacation time. 
4.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? To remain happy and optimistic when you fail is more important than achieving success. 
4.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The best way to improve the quality of education in a country is to increase teachers’ salaries. 
4.IV. Nowadays, many movies or films are based on books. Some people prefer to read the original book before they watch the movie, other prefer to watch the movie before reading the book. Which one do you prefer? 
4.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better to stop reading and listening to the news for a period of a few days or weeks. 
4.VI. Some people think that we should not limit the time students (6-12-year-old) spend on technology products. Others think that because technology products are harmful, they should be limited to less than one hour. Which do you prefer, why? 
5.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Professional athletes, such as football and basketball players, do not deserve the high salaries that they are paid. 
5.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Younger school children (aged five to ten) should be required to study art and music in addition to math, science, history and language. 
5.III. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? People will spend less time cooking and preparing food in twenty years. 
5.IV. Do you agree or disagree? Rather than help children with their schoolwork, parents should encourage their children do their work independently. 
5.V. Which one of the following do you prefer to do in order to find a successful job? a. Asking the opinions of others (real-life and online friends) b. Sending letters to the company c. Looking for information on the internet or advertisements in the newspaper 
5.VI. Which of the following do you think would be the most effective way that a teacher can use to make students more interested in classes?  Using more technological ways  Asking students to work in groups or teams  Explaining how the lessons have a connection to real-world 
6.I.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students should not take part-time jobs while they are studying in universities. 
6.II.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Movies and TV programs made in one’s own country are more interesting than those made in other countries. 
6.III.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Being creative, rather than planning carefully, helps people come up with the best solution to a problem. 
6.IV.  Do you agree or disagree? The way people dress is a good indication of his or her personality or character. 
6.V.  A company wants to use money to help employees work better. One way is to improve the technology equipment (computers, printers) used by employees and improve efficiency. Another way is to redesign the space to make the working environment more comfortable and have more meeting rooms for discussion. Which way do you recommend? Why? 
6.VI.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Primary school teachers should not give children (aged 5-10) assignments for more than 30 minutes, because there are enough lessons to learn in regular school classes. 
7.I.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should allow children to make their own choices rather than determine their children’s future for them. 
7.II.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Only movies that can teach us something about real life are worth watching. 
7.III.  Sometimes we are assigned to work in a group on a project. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A group will be helped more by a person who will be willing to do what other group members want than by a person who often strongly insists that things should be done in a way that is different from what the group wants to do. 
7.IV.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If you do not make sure other people (especially influential people or your employers) know about your strengths and accomplishments, you will never get successful in life. 
7.V.  As a new teaching method, professors record a video (lecture) in advance for students to learn, and class time is used to answer questions, and have discussions. Do you think this is an effective way and why? 
7.VI.  Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important goal of education is to teach people how to educate themselves. 
8.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should only study or play and don’t have to do household chores. 
8.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important for the government to spend money on art museums and concert halls than on recreational facilities such as swimming pools and playgrounds. 
8.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better to take a secure job with a low pay than to take a job with a high pay but is easy to lose. Your friend has the opportunity to choose either one of two types of majors (fields of study), which one of the following two majors do you think is a better choice, and why? 
8.IV. A major that would allow him to finish years of study and get a degree sooner (so that he would begin to work full-time quickly). Or A major that requires many years of study that would provide him with more employment opportunities and offers in the future. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
8.V. Which one can make friendship stronger? Having a good time with your friend (Enjoy good time) Solving your problem with him or her (talk about problem) Supporting each other 
8.VI. Some people prefer to go and visit the tourist attractions where there are many people. Others like the ones with fewer people. Which one do you prefer? 
9.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In the busy and crowded world today, we should not expect people to be polite to each other. 
9.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It was easier to achieve success in the past than it is today.
9.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Movies and televisions should always show audience that good people are rewarded and bad people are punished.
9.IV. Students of a university have a long break between university semesters; the university requires all students to do one of the following for one month during the break: Students must take a course on the subject that has no direct connection to their majors of study (For example, a student majoring in engineering may take course in fine arts or social science.) Students must volunteer to work in the university’s city or their hometowns to improve some aspects of life of the city or their own town. (For example, students may help local primary school children with their homework.) Which one do you think is more beneficial for students in their university? Why? Give detailed examples and reasons. Use your OWN words, do NOT use memorized examples.
9.V. Imagine that you are going to visit a new city, which one of the following ways do you think is the best way to know the city in a short time?  Visiting historic sites  Going to shops and markets  Enjoying going to restaurants and spending time in café
9.VI. An elementary school intends to extend the science time for children aged 5-11 and reduce music and art time? What is your opinion? 
10.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is often not a good idea to move to a new city or a new country because you will lose old friends.
10.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? To achieve successful development of a country, a government should spend more money on young children’s education rather than on universities.
10.III. You are helping to select a leader for a student organization or a group. Do you think a person's honesty is the most important characteristic for being a leader?
10.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better to hold a big party and invite many people to come than a small party where only a few close friends and family members are invited.
10.V. Do you agree or disagree? People who always criticize others cannot be a member of a group.
10.VI. Except for doing homework, parents should limit the use of electronic devices such as computers and mobile phones for children under the age of 13. Do you agree or disagree? 
11.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It’s better to have rules about the type of clothing that people wear at schools or in their workplace.
11.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People should buy things that are made in their own country, even if the price of these products is higher than that of the products made in other countries.
11.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The food we ate in the past was healthier than the food we eat today.
11.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Visiting museums is the best way to learn about a country.
11.V. Your school wants to improve the quality of students' life in the dormitory. Which one of the following do you think the school should build in dorms?  A quiet study area (A quiet place for study)  Exercise room for students to maintain physical health  Room for entertainment (like watching movies) 
11.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In universities, people tend to be concerned more about the career prospect of the subjects they learn. Some people propose that students should learn subjects with fast job growth, including science, technology, and engineering even if they are interested in other subjects. 
12.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents do not understand their children as well as parents did 50 years ago.
12.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People would be happier with fewer possessions.
12.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People who move out of their native villages or towns are more successful and happier than people who stay in their native villages or towns. 
12.IV. Do you agree or disagree? It is better to travel abroad to visit different countries when you are younger rather than when you are older.
12.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Professors should prohibit the use of devices that can connect to the internet in class.
12.VI. If you want to choose a purpose, which one do you choose? Helping other people Enhancing time management Improving physical well-being and eating healthy food 
13.I. Do you agree with the following statement? The government should support scientific research even if there’s no practical use. 
13.II. Do you agree with the following statement? In order to succeed, you should be more like others than be different from everyone else? 
13.III. Do you agree or disagree? People nowadays are more willing to help other people (giving food or clothing) than in the past. 
13.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The environmental issue is too complex to be handled by the individual. 
13.V. A university recognized first-year students have poor study skills in its university. Some in the university believe the best way to address this is to ask all first- year students have to pass course on study skills. Others don't agree with this requirement. What is your opinion? 
13.VI. Some modern agriculture methods damage the environment. People think providing more food for the growing world population is more important than protecting the environment. Do you agree with this view?  
14.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In a team, those who do not accept others’ criticism cannot succeed. 
14.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children should only play sports for fun, not in competitions or contests. 
14.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? All school teachers should be required to take courses every five years to update their knowledge. 
14.IV. When you are assigned an important presentation for work or school, do you prefer to work on it right away so that you can work on it a little bit every day, or wait until you have a good idea about the presentation? 
14.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Governments should spend more money in support of the arts than in support of athletics such as state- sponsored Olympic teams. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
14.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Television advertising directed toward young children (aged two to five) should not be allowed. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
15.I. Do you agree with the following statement? All high school students should take a course in basic economics. 
15.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People holding different views cannot achieve success as a team. 
15.III. Some people have ambitious dreams and keep following them, but other people always focus on realistic goals and try to achieve them. Which do you think is better? 
15.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Is it easier to become educated today than it was in the past? 
15.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A teacher’s ability to relate well with students is more important than excellent knowledge of the subject being taught. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
15.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students are more influenced by their teachers than by their friends. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
16.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? To solve present and future problems, it is necessary to understand the past. 
16.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If parents want their children to do well at school, they should limit the time their children spend on watching TV. 
16.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Printed books have had greater effects on society than televisions. 
16.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people nowadays do not respect their teachers as much as they did in the past. 
16.V. When you give money to charitable organizations, do you prefer to choose how the donation will be used (for example, donate money to be spent on food or service or advertisement for organizations) or leave the decision to the organizations? 
16.VI. Now children do not behave as well as the children did in the past. Which one of the following measures do you think can help children (age 5~10) behave better? A. Control the time they spend on TV or movie B. Take more time to chat with children C. Monitor the interaction between children and their peers  
17.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: People can solve important problems by themselves or with the help from their family members so there’s no need for the government to help them. 
17.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People should have hobbies and do physical activities that are very different from their own work. 
17.III. Imagine that a professor requires students to learn as much as possible about a subject in a short period of time. Is it better for the professor to require students to work together in a group or is it better to require students to work alone? 
17.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If we can’t say anything nice about someone, then we should not say anything about this person. 
17.V. Nowadays, people are busy with many things. If you were given a short period of time, what would you choose?  Learn to play a new sport you never played  Learn to cook food in a different way  Learn to do some hand-made work like clothes 
17.VI. Some companies have decided not to allow employees to discuss business by sending emails or messages on weekends. Some people believe that this policy is great, others believe that this policy will discourage employees. What is your opinion and why?  
18.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Scientists should be responsible for the negative impacts of their discoveries 
18.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Improving schools is the most important factor in the successful development of a country? 
18.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Working at home using computers or telephones is better than working in the office. 
18.IV. Do you agree or disagree? People can solve important problems by themselves or by their families; thus, it is almost not necessary to refer to the government. 
18.V. Do you agree or disagree? In the modern era, parents learn from children more than children learn from parents. 
18.VI. Some people think historical sites should be open to the general public, but others think historical sites should only be open to experts and researchers. Which one do you think is better?  
19.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If you need to discuss upsetting or controversial problems with others, using email/text messaging is better than using telephone/voice-messaging. 
19.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People who have learned many different skills are more likely to succeed than those who focus on learning only one skill. 
19.III. Which one do you prefer? Students in high school should learn by sitting there listening to the teacher while taking notes or communicating and sharing ideas with class. 
19.IV. After having a presentation in class, you want to evaluate it. Which of the following do you think would be better for you?  watch the recording by yourself  invite other attenders to discuss and give opinions 
19.V. If you are required to give feedback about your classmates/colleagues (work or performance), would you like to give positive comments or negative comments first? 
19.VI. Is it as important for older people to learn and study new things as it is for young people?  
20.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The personal and work-related challenges that young people face today are not any different from the challenges their parents and grandparents faced when they were young.  
20.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? When working on a project, it’s better for classmates or colleagues to communicate face to face than send emails. 
20.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement. Nowadays more and more people spend too much money on their pets (dogs, cats and others), although there are better uses for this money. 
20.IV. University students are often encouraged to study fields in which significant job growth (a large increase in job opportunities) is expected; these fields currently include science, technology, engineering, and math, do you believe students should consider studying fields related to these subjects even if they are more interested in other subjects? Why or why not? 
20.V. One of the most challenging problems in modern society is to have the most up-to-date skills for workplace. For solving this, government decides to give all adults over the age of 25 a training course to learn new skills. Do you think it is an effective way for government to spend its money? 
20.VI. Are governments doing well in educating people to pay attention to the importance of the food nutrition and healthy eating?  
21.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In the modern world, we should never be impolite to another person. 
21.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Telephone has had greater effects on people’s lives than television. 
21.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People care more about public recognition than about money. Even if no more money is given, public recognition can still make people work harder. 
21.IV. Do you agree or disagree? It is better to use your own knowledge and experience to solve problems than to ask other people for advice. 
21.V. If you are going to graduate from the university and have to choose the final course, which professor will you choose; the one whose courses you used to sign up for or the one you have never learned from before? 
21.VI. Taking a lot of time to make an important decision is viewed as a bad quality for a person to have. But now it’s considered as a good quality of a person. Do you agree or disagree with the statement?  
22.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Successful leaders should make others part of the decision-making process. 
22.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Colleges or Universities should offer more courses to prepare students for the future before they start working. 
22.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people today are less dependent on their parents than in the past. 
22.IV. Do you agree or disagree? It is easier for parents to raise children than it was 50 years ago. 
22.V. When parents are too busy to spend time with their children, they could choose to send their children to a childcare center where many children are taken care of together; or they could send their children to an individual caregiver. Which one is better? 
22.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the statement? All university students should be required to take history courses no matter what field they study in.  
23.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Compared with people who live in urban areas, the people who live in rural areas can take better care of their families. 
23.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The advice from the grandparents is of no use to their grandchildren because the world has changed a lot over the past 50 years. 
23.III. Some teenagers take part in different kinds of activities such as musical classes, sports classes and so on, but others only focus on one activity which is important to them. Which idea do you support? 
23.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? a. Always telling the truth is the most important consideration in any relationship between people. b. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
23.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? When people spend a lot of time watching sports on television or following their favorite team, does it have negative effects on their lives? 
23.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? These days, children spend more time on doing homework or participating in organized activities related to school or sports. However, they should be given more time to do whatever they want.  
24.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Among all the characters that a successful person has, communication skill is the most important. 
24.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is easier for people to become well-educated now than in the past. 
24.III. Do you agree or disagree? Asking children to work in small groups is the best way to teach young children. 
24.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It's better to complete a project and then start another one than to do several things at the same time. 
24.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement. It is better to make friends with intelligent people than with the people who have a good sense of humor. 
24.VI. Do you prefer watching TV programs for knowledge or just for entertainment?  
25.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should encourage their children to do their homework independently rather than help them to do it. 
25.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Two people can still become good friends if one of them has more money than the other one does. 
25.III. Some people think university professors should spend more time doing research while others think they should spend more time educating students. What is your view? 
25.IV. Do you agree or disagree: young people should try many different kinds of jobs or career before they decide the long-term career of their life. 
25.V. If people want to contribute to the society, which of the following is the best way?  riding bicycle or walking on foot  recycling the waste  buying local organic food 
25.VI. Do you agree that it is better to work for the business owned by someone else than to work for the business of one's own family?  
26.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? One of the characteristics of successful leaders is the sense of responsibility for accepting their mistakes. 
26.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents should allow children to make mistakes and let them learn from their own mistakes. 
26.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important problems in today’s world will be solved in our lifetime. 
26.IV. Do you agree or disagree? People gain more happiness from their jobs than their social life. 
26.V. The government can take a variety of actions to help protect the environment. Which one of the following do you think is the most important for the nation’s government to take to protect the environment?  Fund research to develop environmentally friendly energy sources such as solar and wind energy.  Preserve the natural places like forests and protect the animals that live there  Enforce laws to prevent the pollution of air and water by large companies 
26.VI. If you are going to graduate from the university and have to choose the final course, which professor will you choose: the one whose courses you used to sign up for or the one you have never learned from before?  
27.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement. Movies and television have more negative effects than positive effects on the way young people behave.  
27.II. Which kind of universities do you prefer, universities whose graduates can find good jobs or universities where there are famous professors? 
27.III. Do you agree or disagree? One can learn a lot about a person from the books and movies that he likes. 
27.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Although science and technology will continue to improve, the most significant improvement for the quality of people’s lives have already taken place. 
27.V. Which one is the most important factor to help you work productively: A. Having an environment free of noise and distractions; B. Knowing that you will receive a reward; C. Doing something you are interested in. 
27.VI. The university has provided students who are going to enter university with two summer vocation programs. Which one do you think is better for students? - Take some college courses in advance e.g. some courses that are related to students' major. - Visit some history museums or historical relics  
28.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Universities should spend more money on improving facilities (e.g. labs and general equipment) than on hiring famous professors. 
28.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important to know what is happening around the world, even if it does not affect your personal lives. 
28.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better for government to spend money on building modern housing than on preserving historic or traditional buildings and homes. 
28.IV. Do you agree or disagree? Internet should be like other services such as roads, and government should provide it to the public with no cost. 
28.V. If you were the leader of the country, what kind of policy would you use to succeed?  Creating job for unemployed people  Develop agriculture and reduce food prices  Develop Housing 
28.VI. Some people say people taking risks can be more successful than people who are careful and cautious. What is your opinion? Please give specific details and examples in your answer.  
29.I. Some people like to buy a piece of technological device as soon as it is available in the market. Other people prefer to buy it after it has been adopted by many people. Which do you prefer? 
29.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important to choose friends that can have fun with you than to choose friends that will help you when you need them. 
29.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If a student is having difficulty studying a course, it is better for the student to turn to a friend who is good at this course than to turn to his/her teacher for help.  
29.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more important to read or watch news presented by people whose views are different from your own than it is to read or watch news presented by those whose views are similar to your own. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer 
29.V. Do you agree or disagree that job has greater effect on your overall happiness than social life does? 
29.VI. When parents cannot afford time to accompany their children, they could choose to send their children to child-care center where many children are cared together, or they could send their children to an individual caregiver. Which one is better?  
30.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important investment for a company is to spend money to improve the work skills of its employees. 
30.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Patience is usually not a good strategy. We should take action now rather than later. 
30.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people should choose a job that is similar to what their parents did. 
30.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important to read or watch news presented by people with different views than people by similar views. 
30.V. In order to stay healthy, many people choose to exercise. Some people tend to exercise individually such as running and riding bicycles, etc. Some people tend to participate in group exercises such as team sports. Which one do you prefer and why? 
30.VI. For schools, assessing teachers’ teaching efficiency is a very important issue. But is it better for other teachers to assess or let students assess teachers?  
31.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to succeed in doing a new job, the ability to adapt oneself to the new environment is more important than the excellent knowledge of this job. 
31.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is much easier for people to achieve success without their family members’ help now than in the past. 
31.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The competition between friends always has negative effect. 
31.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children rely too much on the technology, like computers, smart phones, video games for fun and entertainment. Playing simpler toys or playing outside with friends would be better for children’s development. 
31.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is the best way for teachers to help students become more interested in a subject by explaining how this subject can help students live better outside the school. 
31.VI. If you need to take a course, which professor's course would you like to take?  a professor who was voted the most popular  a professor who has just won an award for an outstanding research  
32.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: it is impossible to be completely honest with your friend. 
32.II. Which one of the following would you change to improve your health? 1. The kind of food you eat 2. The amount of exercise 3. The amount of stress  
32.III. Which do you prefer with the same rate of pay; an interesting and challenging job with less vacation or a job with more vacation time but less fun? 
32.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: Your job has more effect on your happiness than your social life does. 
32.V. Some people like to buy and eat their meals at restaurants frequently while others like to do this at home. Which do you prefer? Why? 
32.VI. Which one do you think is the most important factor for a student to succeed at college or university?  Tutors in university.  The encouragement from family and friends.  High-quality education from high school.  
33.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Governments and private companies should share their scientific discoveries with the rest of the world. 
33.II. Some people like to work at home, while others prefer to work in the office. Which do you prefer and why? 
33.III. People in communities can make decisions in order to protect and improve the natural environment. Which one is the most useful? A. plant trees and create parks B. persuade local shops to stop providing plastic bags to customers C. increase access to public transportation to reduce the number of automobiles on local roads 
33.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Leadership comes naturally. One cannot learn how to develop it. 
33.V. Some people think the media including newspapers, televisions, radio, and internet sources are less concerned about the accuracy of news. They think the information from the media is becoming incorrect. Do you agree with this opinion or not and explain why? Include examples and specific reasons. 
33.VI. Some people prefer to focus on ambitious dreams while others think realistic goals are more important. Which do you prefer and why?  
34.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people now are more likely to help others than young people were in the past. 
34.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Governments should focus their budgets more on environmental protection than on economic development. 
34.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is not necessary for university students to attend classes as long as they can pass their examinations. 
34.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Companies should pay for employees to get a university degree.  
34.V. Do you agree that people should always participate in the activities that they are good at or talented in? 
34.VI. The growing number of overweight people is putting a strain on health care system in an effort to deal with the health issues involved. Some people think that the best way to deal with this problem is to introduce more physical education lessons in the school curriculum. To what extent do you agree or disagree?  
35.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important for governments to protect wild animals and wilderness areas for the future generations. 
35.II. Which of the following do you think contribute most to an enjoyable vacation: 1.good food 2. good location 3. good friends to travel with. Select one and give your reasons. 
35.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students are more interested in politics now than they were in the past. 
35.IV. Students in a university club want to help others, but they can only choose one project a year, which one of the following is the best?  help those students in a nearby primary school with reading and mathematics  help people who cannot afford to build or rent a home to build a house  visit and assist elderly people with daily tasks 
35.V. Do you agree or disagree? It is difficult for teachers to be both popular (liked by students) and effective in helping students in learning. Give your reasons and specific examples. 
35.VI. At work or school, you might encounter a problem that requires creativity -for example, you are given a task to complete that is very different from other tasks you do. In work or school situation that requires you to think creatively, would you prefer to work alone or with others? Why?  
36.I. Which way do you think is the best for a student to make new friends?  joining a sports team  participating in community activities  Traveling 
36.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Nowadays it is easier to maintain good health than in the past. 
36.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Students can get as many benefits from organization or club activities as they can get from their academic studies. 
36.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? After high school, students should have at least one year to work or travel. It's better than attending university straight away. 
36.V. Do you agree or disagree? Nowadays it is not important for people to have regular family meals together. 
36.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It's a waste of money for Government to fund space travel or space exploration. Give specific examples and detail s to support your answer.  
37.I. Do you agree or disagree? It is more important for students to do reading by themselves (based on their own interests) than to read what their teachers assign. 
37.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: One quality that a successful leader must have is to make decisions quickly; when a leader takes too much time to make decisions, he will be seen as ineffective to the people he leads. 
37.III. Do you agree or disagree: Should high-school students be required to study many different subjects at the same time or they should study only three or four subjects at a time? 
37.IV. In times of an economic crisis, in which area should governments reduce their spending? - Arts - Scientific research - Parks and public gardens 
37.V. The government wants to fund the following to improve children’s education:  hire more teachers to teach in a small class  provide preschool education before kindergarten  provide some training courses so that teachers can be more professional  
37.VI. Which one do you think is the most important? Use specific examples and reasons to support your answer. 
37.VII. Nowadays many high schools and universities require students to work on projects in groups, and all members of the group receive the same grade (mark) on the project. Do you agree or disagree that giving every member of a group the same grade is a good way to evaluate students? Use specific examples and reasons to support your answer. Be sure to use your own words. Do not use memorized examples.  
38.I. Some people believe that video games could inspire young students' interest and make their study more efficient rather than distract them and be a waste of time, so young students should be allowed to play video games. Do you agree or disagree?  
38.II. Some people think it is the best approach for students to learn if schools start the day at an early time in the morning. But some think the school should start the day at a late time. Which one do you prefer? Use specific reasons and detailed examples to support your answer. 
38.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A good leader should spend more time listening to other people's ideas than taking his/her own ideas. 
38.IV. Some people think that older children should be required to take care of the younger children. Others think that this should be done by parents or other adults. Which do you prefer? 
38.V. Do you agree or disagree the following statement? The more money a person has, the more he or she should give away to charities. 
38.VI. High school teachers (teachers of students ages 14-18) spend most of class time lecturing (speaking) while the students listen and take notes. Other high school teachers spend most of class time on discussion and projects that students are highly involved in and exchange their ideas. Which of these two approaches do you think is more effective for student learning and why?  
39.I. Some companies provide important products or service, but also damage environment. Some people believe that government should require more penalty, higher tax and larger fine of these companies, while others believe there are better ways. Which do you prefer? 
39.II. Which one is the most important factor to help you work productively?  Having an environment free of noise and distractions  Knowing that you will receive a reward  Doing something you are interested in  
39.III. Should parents help their children with their assignments or let them do their assignments independently? 
39.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Government, instead of individuals, should cover Internet fees. 
39.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Universities should require every graduating student to take public speaking courses. Give specific examples and details to support your answer. 
39.VI. Many filmmakers make movies based on books. When a movie is produced based on books, some people prefer to read books before watching films, other people choose to watch the movie first. Which one do you think is better? Why?  
40.I. Is it more important for the government to spend money on art and music museums than on facilities like playgrounds, public swimming pool? 
40.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important things people learn are from families. 
40.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The more money people have, the more they should contribute to charity. 
40.IV. Some university professors let their students choose their research topics themselves. Some do not. Which one do you think is better? Why? 
40.V. If you want to recommend a way to reduce living expenses for your friend, which of the following will you choose? Why?  Find a roommate to share a room  Do not buy the latest mobile phone, Buy new technological devices less Frequently  Buy cheap foods and cook home (do not often eat outside) 
40.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The most important way to improve the people’s health is to clean the environment.  
41.I. Imagine that you are in a classroom or a meeting. The teacher or the meeting leader says something incorrect in your opinion, which of the following is the best thing to do?  Interrupt and correct the mistake right away  Wait until the class or meeting is over and the people are gone, and then talk to the teacher or meeting leader  Say nothing Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
41.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Teachers were more appreciated and valued by society in the past than they are nowadays. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
41.III. Some parents offer their school-age children money for each high grade (mark) they get in school. Do you think this is a good idea? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
41.IV. Some people believe that when busy parents do not have a lot of time to spend with their children, the best use of that time is to have fun playing games or sports. Others believe that it is best to use that time doing things together that are related to schoolwork. Which of the two approaches do you prefer? 
41.V. Which one do you think is the most important for high     school teacher (age from 15 to 18)?      the ability to give students advice to plan for their     future      the ability to find which students need help and     provide them with help      the ability to encourage students to learn by     themselves outside of the classroom  
41.VI. If there’s a way to improve yourself, which one among the three choices you would take?  take more exercise  eat healthy food  reduce the amount of stress Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The opinions of celebrities, such as famous entertainers and athletes, are more important to younger people than they are to older people. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is important to know about events happening around the world, even if it is unlikely that they will affect your daily life. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Because modern life is very complex, it is essential for young people to have the ability to plan and organize. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Workers are more satisfied when they have many different types of tasks to do during the workday than when they do similar  tasks  all  day  long. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In the past, young people depended too much on their parents to make decisions for them; today young people are better able to make decisions about their own lives. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
42.VI. Do you agree that people easily learn from the friends beside them? Use specific examples and evidences to support your answer.  
43.I. Which one of the following values is the most important to share with a young child (5-10 years old)?  being helpful  Being honest  Being well organized 
43.II. Some young people are free in the evenings or have days off at school, which way can bring them the most benefit?  To accumulate work experience by a part-time job or volunteering in a community  Learning to play a sport  Learning to play a musical instrument 
43.III. Some people think that success is most important in their life. Others think that it’s more important to be happy when they fail. Which idea do you agree with and why? 
43.IV. In order to attract more tourists, the government could either improve safety by hiring more police or improve its appearance by repairing old buildings and streets. Which way do you think is more effective? 
43.V. At some universities, students take part in making decisions about the issues that affect daily life of everyone on campus such as how many hours the libraries should be open each day or what kinds of food should be served in the cafeteria. But at some universities, experts are hired to make these decisions, and students are almost never involved. Which approach do you prefer and why? 
43.VI. Which one of the following values is the most important to share with a young child (5-10 years old)?  Being helpful  Being honest  Being well organized  
44.I. At one high school, more of its students than ever before have been caught cheating on their homework assignments. For example, many students have asked other students to provide them with answers for assignments. The school is considering making a change to help decrease the number of students who cheat on homework. Which one of the following actions do you think will be most effective and why?  asking parents to monitor their children as they do their homework and confirm that their children have not cheated  increasing the penalty (punishment) for cheating  asking teachers to create homework assignments that will make it more difficult for students to cheat 
44.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Children rely too much on the technology, like computers, smart phones, video games for fun and entertainment. Playing simpler toys or playing outside with friends would be better for children’s development. 
44.III. If the government wants to invest in the following three areas, what do you think is the most worthwhile?  land exploration  education  health care  
44.IV. Your friend has the opportunity to choose either one of two types of majors (fields of study), which one of the following two majors do you think is a better choice, and why?  A major that would allow him to finish years of study and get a degree sooner (so that he would begin to work full-time quickly). Or  A major that requires many years of study that would provide him with more employment opportunities and offers in the future. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. Be sure to use your own words. Do not memorize some certain examples. 
44.V. Students aged 13-18 are taught different subjects by different teachers while younger students are taught by only one teacher all day long. Some people suggest it would benefit young students to be taught by different teachers. Do you agree with this view? Why or why not? 
44.VI. Some people think that we should keep away from others to improve our relationship, because being away from people reminds us of how important they are. Others think we should always stay with others to have good relationship because we can communicate with them more often. What do you think?  
45.I. A city wants to help teachers of its high school students (ages14-18) improve their teaching. It is considering two plans:  Choose a small group of excellent teachers; these teachers will attend a class led by an expert for additional training in how to teach effectively, and they will then come back to their schools and provide that training for other teachers in school.  Provide additional training in teaching effectively for high school teachers, using online material that each teacher will study individually. 
45.II. Do you agree or disagree that it is less effective when we work with those who have a different way of thinking and working? 
45.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The reading students do on their own is as important as, or even more important than the reading assigned by their teachers. 
45.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Developing economy is more important than cleaning the environment. 
45.V. Do you agree or disagree? Physical exercise is more important for older people than young people. 
45.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Scientists should use clean sources instead of polluting sources to generate electricity even if it is expensive.  
46.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Television advertising directed towards young children (aged two to five) should not be allowed. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
46.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Technology has made children less creative than they were in the past. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
46.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Playing computer games is a waste of time. Children should not be allowed to play them. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
46.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In today’s world, it is more important to work quickly and risk making mistakes than to work slowly and make sure that everything is correct. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
46.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? One of the best ways that parents can help their teenage children prepare for adult life is to encourage them to take a part-time job. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
46.VI. Which one do you think is important to long-lasting friendship?  help you when you need  share same interest and hobby  mutual trust  
47.I. Some people say that the Internet provides people with a lot of valuable information. Others think access to much information creates problems. Which view do you agree with? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
47.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better to have broad knowledge of many academic subjects than to specialize in one specific subject. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
47.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The extended family (grandparents, cousins, aunts, and uncles) is less important now than it was in the past. 
47.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People benefit more from traveling in their own country than from traveling to foreign countries. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
47.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is better for children to choose jobs that are similar to their parents’ jobs than to choose jobs that are very different from their parents’ jobs. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
47.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The ability to maintain friendships with a small number of people over a long period of time is more important for happiness than the ability to make many new friends easily. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
48.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? If people have the opportunity to get a secure job, they should take it right away rather than wait for a job that would he more satisfying. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
48.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Parents today are more involved in their children's education than were parents in the past. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
48.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? To improve the quality of education, universities should spend more money on salaries for university professors. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
48.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is more enjoyable to have a job where you work only three days a week for long hours than to have a job where you work five days a week for shorter hours. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
48.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to be well-informed, a person must get information from many different news resources. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
48.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Successful people try new things and take risks rather than only doing what they know how to do well. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
49.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Because the world is changing so quickly, people now are less happy or less satisfied with their lives than people were in the past. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
49.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Young people today have no influence on the important decisions that determine the future of society as a whole. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
49.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? When teachers assign projects on which students must work together, the students learn much more effectively than when they are asked to work alone on projects. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
49.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Educating children is a more difficult task today than it was in the past because they spend so much time on cell phone, online games, and social networking Web site. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
49.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? For success in a future job, the ability to relate well to people is more important than studying hard in school. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
49.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Teachers should not make their social or political views known to students in the classroom. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  
50.I. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? A person should never make an important decision alone. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
50.II. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? People learn things better from those at their own level—such as fellow students or co-workers—than from those at a higher level, such as teachers or supervisors. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
50.III. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? Because people are busy doing so many different things, they do very few things well. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
50.IV. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In the past it was easier to identify what type of career or job would lead to a secure, successful future. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
50.V. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? In order to become financially responsible adults, children should learn to manage their own money at young age. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 
50.VI. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? The best way to travel is in a group led by a tour guide. Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.  